Moving ahead into the journey of our
Python, let's take one more topic
which we are going to briefly touch.
We will not go too much in
depth as of now because we are just
exploring the data
types that is known as string.
So anytime you see the word,
the string itself or the word like
fraction, these are treated as
string in the world of Python.
And yes, I am hundred percent
aware that string is
this much of the in depth.
They have a lot of methods, you can
do lot of things with the strings,
format them, uppercase
them, lower them, count the values,
manipulations, a whole lot
of thing exist with that.
But I personally think that the best
time to learn the string is when
you actually build something, do
some projects in it, or actually
have a use case of the string.
So what we're going to see is just
the basics of string, one or two
use cases so that we understand
the part of it and we'll learn
about a little bit of the slicing
of the strings, indexing as well
as slicing.
So the only two topics that we want
to start with is the core
string itself, what does it mean by
to have a string in itself?
Once we understand the core
of it, then we just want
to touch briefly about indexing.
So each letter in the string,
how does it mean and what
does it actually does.
And apart from this one final one
which is actually pretty interesting
and useful, is known as slicing.
So these are the only three
topic we are going to cover.
We'll go with the foundation
of it, the code, the indexing part
of it and the slicing part of it.
Yes, I 100% agree.
String deserves a lot of videos,
they have a lot of use case.
But we'll do that right now.
Let's just go with the basics of it.
All right.
And by the way, string is,
in case you haven't just figured
it out, it's actually
immutable, they cannot be changed.
So always remember strings
are actually mutable,
they cannot be changed.
So in the memory they always
actually create a new reference.
All right, so let's go
ahead and we still are
in the data types actually.
So let's go into the chapter six.
We are running with
a lot of chapters.
So chapter six py and there we go.
So in order to have a string,
let's just define a chai type.
The chai type is one of my favorite
one which is ginger, chai.
This is a string.
Anything that you see
in the double quote is a string.
That is it.
Nothing much, nothing less.
That's it.
And let's Just say you also are
having, let me just shut this down.
You also have a customer name.
Who is asking for this one?
Let's just say the customer
name is Priya.
So how do we do that?
How do we use the string?
Using the string is
actually exactly same.
Let's just say I want to print,
I want to print a formatted string.
So we'll just say order for.
Inject a variable.
We're going to go ahead and say
customer name, order for.
And then we are going to say chai.
Type please with an exclamation.
There we go.
And if I go ahead and run
this, the output should
be pretty expected.
Python 3 chapter 6 Py There we go.
Order for Priya, Ginger.
Chai please.
That is it, that is the whole string.
Now let me go ahead
and add more to this one.
So let's just say we want
to have a description for the chai.
How does the description
for chai works?
Let's just say we want
to call it as aromatic and bold.
This is our chai.
Now we want to have the first word
and the last word of this, string.
I don't know why the reason
for it, but we just want to grab it.
So how do we do this?
We actually go ahead and take this
whole string and this is where we
learn about the indexing part of it.
So, so indexing is
actually super easy.
For the indexing, I'll just go
ahead and say let's paste this.
There we go.
So this indexing means that
each letter in this string is
represented by a number.
So the 0th letter is actually
represented by this one.
So the letter numbering
actually starts with zero.
After that, if you want to have
the first character, then you
simply go ahead and say, hey,
this is my first character.
So the first character is actually R
and we can just keep on moving that.
Always remember that the letter
and the indexing always
starts in the programming,
especially starts from zero.
So if I want to get the first
world, this is my zeroth world.
So 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.
Also remember one of the thing
in indexing range, slicing,
whatever, that the last
number is not inclusive.
In the world of Python,
last number is not inclusive.
So when I say 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
So 7 is not going to be inclusive.
So if I just put it to 7, the C
is never going to be inclusive.
So I have to say from zero
to the eight so that I can get
the first letter and that's
it, that's all it takes.
So if I go ahead and say I want to
print the first number, so I'll just
go ahead and say first, not number.
First word is going to be like this.
So I can just take the chai
description and then I can
use the square brackets.
That's how you define that.
Okay.
And this has two part the start,
the end, and the step.
And the step.
So this is how I start from the 0th.
I know if I just print out the 7.
This is not going to be inclusive,
but I still want to see.
This is investigative study.
I want a proof of everything.
So this is what we have.
Aromatic.
We want C as well, so
you get the point.
We have aromatic as well.
This is what we have.
If I print this.
There we go, nice and easy.
There is also one more thing.
After the colon, you can actually
go ahead and put up a one here.
And then let's see what happens.
Investigation.
Nothing happens because one means,
each letter do not skip anything.
One simply means one character.
So but if I go ahead and say
two, that means every second
character, the one means
every character, and two means
every second character.
So what you're going to get in this
one is you get A, then the next
character, R is being skipped.
So every second character
is being skipped.
This one we get it.
But after that Is being skipped.
And you might be wondering
what's the use case of this?
This sounds really bad.
It's not usable anymore.
But it has its own use cases.
Now if I go back onto this,
there are some Pythonic way
of doing the things.
For example, if it is zero,
you can avoid this, but you cannot
avoid the starting colon.
Yeah, Python guys loves
to use this and show off a lot.
But, again, you get the point.
Now similar to this, if you want to
have the last word just like this.
So I can just go ahead
and say, hey, last.
And I have prepared
in advance, what is this?
So I can just say, hey, start point.
I will just go ahead and say 12,
but I don't mention the last point.
That means go ahead
at the end, whatever it takes.
So if I go ahead and start
with this, we get the bold.
So the 12th letter is B.
And after that whatever it takes.
So if I add more things here, so
for example aromatic and bold, more,
it will just keep
on going and will never stop.
So that's how it is done.
I hope you get the idea how this
indexing and slicing works.
Pretty nice and interesting, isn't
it?
Now one last thing, which is,
being shown off Quite a lot.
One more thing that you can do
is now that we know we have a
start, then a colon, then we
have an end, and then we have
a colon, and then we have a
step.
In the step, you can go
ahead and add minus one.
Yeah.
What's the point of this minus one?
The minus one is a shorthand
for reversing the whole string.
So this aromatic and this is
a shorthand notation for that.
The steps can be negative indexed.
And yes, in the world of Python
you can actually negative index.
So it will start
from the rotative way.
You get the idea.
So if I go ahead and run this
notice here, now it says
dolb, which is bold and DNA.
So everything goes.
So this is a nice trick
to actually reverse the string.
A lot of people use it
and they actually love
to use this part as well.
All right, so this is
pretty interesting.
One more thing I would like to
mention about the string which
we will use quite a lot and a
lot of time these strings, we
are writing all the English
strings, but it's not always
that you'll be writing English
scripts sometimes.
Maybe you want to write Hindi,
maybe you want to write, Tamil,
maybe you want to write Japanese,
Chinese or Mandarin, whatever.
The language you want to write,
they have own characters.
Like for example, in the Spanish
you might have seen if
you press A quite a lot, there
are tilde is over the A.
So if you want to use these
kinds of things, there is
a special way of do it.
But for example, we do
have a variable, let's
just say labeltext.
And this label text needs to go
onto a variety of places.
So we'll just call this one
as chai and let's call
this one E as special one.
So I'll just go ahead and use this e
and we'll just say special.
Now this is not an ordinary character
that we are working with and this
can actually create problem.
So for these kinds of things,
when you have these special
characters or special symbols,
we actually use encoded string.
So let's just call this
one as encoded label.
How do we do that?
We actually take the label text
and we have a function, we just put
a dot and you can see there are
a lot of methods in the string.
We can capitalize it, case, fold
it, center it, we can count it.
There are a lot of things.
One of the things which is important
for us as of now is encode and then
you provide the encoding for it.
The common encoding
that we use is UTF 8.
This is a, Way to symbolize
the strings in the computer format.
So we have UTF 8, we have UTF 16.
There's a lot of them right now.
UTF 8 will do our job.
Let's try to print what
happens in this one.
So when I go ahead and print this out
and I say encoded label,
and I try to print this, I want
to print the encoded label.
I also want to print the non
encoded one as well.
So I'll just go ahead and say
non encoded label.
And we'll just go
ahead and say label.
Very bad label.
We should actually have a label text.
I'll just copy this
and paste it everywhere so that
we have at least nice one.
All right, so once you actually
do this, you actually see that,
the encoded label looks
like this, which is okay.
This one looks okay.
In this case it's okay.
But when you actually deal up
with the Mandarin characters,
and especially Japanese characters,
very, very difficult.
And you might be wondering, hey, this
actually messed up all the things.
This is not how I want to print it.
But behind the scene, this one
has a guarantee that all
of your characters are truly
encoded and all these special
meanings actually carry on.
But in order to actually properly
print this up, you actually
don't print it like this.
You have to.
You have encoded it,
you will decode this.
So I'll just go ahead and store
this as decode or decoded label.
This time, no spelling mistake.
And you again use encoded label,
and you have a property of
decode, decode, and then you
provide the exact same encoding
that you have used, probably UTF
8, probably UTF 16, whatever you
are using.
So I'll just say that, hey, I
have used encoding of UTF8.
Now you give me this.
And now we can actually go ahead
and say instead of encoding
label, we'll use decoded label,
and we'll just go ahead
and change this decoded label.
There we go.
This is a proper syntax and a proper
way to actually take this.
This looks okay, at least in
terminal, but you will be thanking
me that yes, I taught you the way
of properly taking these
special symbols in the string.
This is rarely being taught, but I
have worked with one of the client
in Japanese and I learned
it through the hard way that how
important these conversion is.
Although it was a web development
project, but that was the lesson
I learned once and for all.
So we actually studied about
the indexing slicing as well as
we explored encoding as well.
How awesome that is.
Encoding, decoding.
There we go.
And that is it.
That is all that we wanted
to go through with a string.
Hope you have enjoyed this chill back
investigative study.
And that's it for this video.
Don't forget to rate us and let's
catch up in the next one.